A case or in this video we're going to look at how we can add a unique constraint to a column within
a table and how we can then remove a unique constraint from a column.
So if you remember a column with a unique constraint applied to it means that it won't accept any duplicate
values of data within that column.
So you can at the same value twice into that column so you can see here I've typed out vs you over how
to add a unique constraint to a column we type alter table followed by the table name.
And then we type I constrain followed by the name we give to this unique constraint.
Then we type unique followed by the column which we actually want to give the unique constraint in brackets
and then to remove a unique constraint from a column we type out a table again followed by the table
name.
And then we type drop index followed by the constraint name and here I've just run the query select
store from pads and basically what this selects from a table does it returns all the columns and all
the rows of data we have in that table.
So you can see down here we have the ID name species and Onur ID columns from the table.
So just type out select stuff from PEPs and run the and when we created our parts table we didn't add
any unique constraints to any of the columns.
So let's do that now.
It's not a unique constraint to the species table.
So to do that we need to come in here and we need to type out table paths and then on the next line
we can add constraints and just come up with a constraint name.
So let's say you underscore species for unique species then type unique and then type the column name
in brackets.
So it's going to be the species column and then we can end with a semi-colon.
So let's run the query now.
And we now have a unique constraint on the species column within the past table.
So if we try to add repeating rows of data in a species column let's say we wanted to add Dawk twice
or twice it wouldn't actually let us do this.
We can only have unique values now.
And since it doesn't really make sense to have a unique constraint on the species column within the
past table let's now remove that unique constraint.
So we need to type 0 to table followed by the table name so pass and then we need to type drop in index
followed by the constraint name which is you underscore species and then we can just run this query
and we've now got rid of the unique constraint from this column.
So that's it for adding unique constraints to a column and removing any constraints to a column.
The only difficult thing to remember is that when you're removing a unique constraint you type drop
index rather then drop unique or drop constrain.
So now let's move on to the next video.